
              Some Sort of Documentation on !WimpForth

    Here is the first release of !WimpForth you probably waited for
    a long time. Its main purpose is to make it easier to write
    Forth programs running under the Wimp of RISC OS. For now it
    uses in its bootup sequence Version 3.10, but I haven't used
    RISC OS 3 routines awfully lot, so that it should also run
    if you change the number in the code.
    
    The Forth machine is VERY tough to the Win32Forth machine
    designed by Andrew McKewan and Tom Zimmer. They both deserve
    big thanks, since I reused so much code (and it was reusable!)
    that you might call WimpForth a port of Win32Forth (originally
    on ******* 95/NT).
    
    But nevertheless there are some differences. WimpForth has
    an ARM assembler/disassembler and a full ARM machine code kernel.
    For differences in machine design please have a look at the file
    "DesignNote".
    
    Important features of WimpForth:
    * As I copied the functionality from an ANS compliant system,
      you should be able to compile ANS Forth programs on it.
    * source level debugger, decompiler
    * ARM assembler/disassembler
    * object orientation like Yerk on the Macs teached the forthers
    * window, icon, control, dialog, menu... classes to
      make programming them as easy AND controllable as possible
    * variable number of threads in vocabularies
    * strong WORDS implementation
    * easy invocation of CLI commands, time control, system variables
    * local labels
    * Wimp interface (yes, it's a real wimp program!)
    * Drag&Drop Filer->Forth window will load forth files.
    * reads normal text files with 16K buffer
    
    * AND FULL SOURCE INCLUDED - if you find bugs or features you
      don't like, correct them in the source until they work as
      you like.
      
    Otherwise WimpForth will behave like other Forths, please refer
    to standard literature ("Thinking Forth" - Leo Brodie) to learn
    about the power of Forth.

    The first steps you could try anyway, are typing
    "words",
    "see interpret",
    "1 2 +",
    ".s",
    "h.",
    "vocs"
    "order"
    clicking MENU on the Forth Window and on the icon bar.
    
    For recompiling the whole system, run !WimpForth by double clicking
    it from the filer and then start "F", which is a >130K executable
    and includes the complete system. If that doesn't work, please
    report to the email address below.
    1) Now take the file "meta" from the filer and drop it on the
    Forth window (or simply type "fload meta <return>"). Wait a few
    seconds until the kernel is created, then quit WimpForth
    by typing "bye" or selecting the Quit lines in the menus.
    2) Then run the file "Xtend" which loads the file "extend" into the
    just compiled kernel, and there you have your totally new system.
    You may also take only the second step if you haven't done
    anything to the kernel.
   
    For a little documentation on the words present in Wimp Forth,
    watch out in the following files:
    
    fkernel   - holds the full source of the kernel
    primutil  - some necessary utilities
    dump      - a dump utility
    dthread   - displays and counts threads and vocabularies
    order     - implements wordlists and vocabularies
    assert    - the assert wordset
    primhash  - prepares class orientation
    see       - a Forth decompiler
    interpif  - makes conditional compiling possible
    debug     - a Forth debugger
    build     - experimental new defining word
    words     - lists words in vocabularies, also good for searching
    pasm      - ARM post-/prefix assembler
    disarm    - ARM disassembler
    utils     - bunch of utilities
    args      - local labels
    class     - object orientation
    classdebug- to see/debug methods
    colours   - wimp colour constants
    icons     - icon classes
    menus     - menu classes
    windows   - window classes
    controls  - dialog boxes... in classes
    
    extend    - loads them all together and adds the Wimp objects
                for WimpForth. Adaptable to have a CLI version.
                
    config    - file gets loaded whenever WimpForth starts up
    
    ssort     - a simple Shell Sort routine, if you need it
    winsee    - see words in windows
    
    That is all. I should notice that WimpForth comes 'as is', and
    the authors cannot be made responsible for damage due to errors
    in the program. You may make copies of WimpForth as often as
    you like (SPREAD IT), but do not charge money for it. And
    please, copy it completely whenever possible.
    
              
    Happy Forthing!

    Martin Läuter

